.TH PKG-MAINT 1 "February 2026" "pkg-maint" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
pkg-maint \- update global pip, uv tool, and npm packages with an interactive Linux-native flow
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pkg-maint
.RI [ --check ]
.RI [ --yes ]
.RI [ --manager " pip|uv|npm|all" ]
.RI [ --config " path" ]
.RI [ --verbose ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pkg-maint
lists available updates for global pip, uv tool, and npm packages, then asks for confirmation before installing.
It supports a non-interactive mode with
.BR --yes .
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B --check
List outdated packages only. Do not install.
Returns exit code 2 when installable updates are available.
.TP
.B --yes
Skip confirmation prompt and install updates directly.
.TP
.BI "--manager " pip|uv|npm|all
Limit operations to a specific manager. Default is
.B all.
.TP
.BI "--config " path
Load a specific config file. Default is
.I ~/.config/pkg-maint/config.env.
.TP
.B --verbose
Print manager command output during installation.
.TP
.BR -h , " --help"
Show usage help.
.SH CONFIGURATION
Configuration file variables:
.IP \[bu] 2
.B PIP_EXCLUDE
(space-separated names)
.IP \[bu] 2
.B UV_EXCLUDE
(space-separated names)
.IP \[bu] 2
.B NPM_EXCLUDE
(space-separated names)
.IP \[bu] 2
.B PIP_CMD
(default:
.BR "python3 -m pip" )
.IP \[bu] 2
.B UV_CMD
(default:
.BR uv )
.IP \[bu] 2
.B NPM_CMD
(default:
.BR npm )
.IP \[bu] 2
.B LOG_FILE
(default:
.BR ~/.local/state/pkg-maint/history.log )
.SH EXIT STATUS
.IP \[bu] 2
0: success, or nothing to update
.IP \[bu] 2
1: runtime failure or package install failure
.IP \[bu] 2
2: updates available in
.B --check
mode
.SH FILES
.IP \[bu] 2
.I ~/.config/pkg-maint/config.env
.IP \[bu] 2
.I ~/.local/state/pkg-maint/history.log
